# Interaction Between Droplets

When multiple droplets are placed in the same vibrating bath, they can interact without
even touching, through the interactions between the droplets and their pilot waves. 
Depending on the separation between the droplets and their bouncing phase, they can either
attract or repel. This long range interaction between particles can lead to some very 
interesting effects, such as quantized orbits and even the formation of crystal lattices!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/Le4siCZIYcA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Orbits
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/nmC0ygr08tE?start=49&end=52" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

When the droplets attract, the attractive force can act as the centripetal force, and
allow the droplets to orbit each other in a way that is very similar to a binary star
system. However, there is a key difference that the orbital radius of the droplets can 
only take discrete values, which are slightly smaller than an integer multiple of the 
Faraday wavelength. 

This is very similar to electrons orbiting around an atomic nucleus. In 1913, Neils Bohr 
made the claim that electrons can only orbit at a fixed distance away from the nucleus, 
which are now known as quantum shells. At the time, this was basically a wild guess
without much evidence. However, Erwin Schrödinger later proved this by modelling the 
electrons as waves (using the famous Schrödinger's equation). This wave-particle 
interaction is very similar to the wave particle interaction for the bouncing droplets 
and is why these wildly different objects exhibit very similar behaviour.

## Crystal Structures

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-2yYgfaU6Ik?start=75&end=80" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

When many droplets are placed into the same bath, they can self-organize into regular 
repeating shapes, similar to crystal lattices. The interactions between droplets can be 
attractive or repulsive, which is very similar to chemical bonds. In a chemical molecule,
when the atoms in the molecule are too far apart, the forces between them are attractive 
tends to bring them together. However, when they are too close together, the force is 
repulsive and pushes them apart. This causes the atoms to remain fixed in position and
allows for the formation of lattice structures. Similarly, the interactions between 
bouncing droplets also alternate between attractive and repulsive, fixing the droplets
in place.